=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::Translate::Template - create an XML or PERL example

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::Translate::Template
   is a XML::Compile::Translate

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $schema = XML::Compile::Schema->new(...);
 print $schema->template(XML  => $type, ...);
 print $schema->template(PERL => $type, ...);

 # script as wrapper for this module
 schema2example -f XML ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Unsupported features

The translator understands schemas, but does not encode that into
actions.  This module interprets the parse results of the translator,
and creates a kind of abstract syntax tree from it, which can be used
for documentational purposes.  Then, it implements to ways to represent
that knowledge: as an XML or a Perl example of the data-structure which
the schema describes.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<new>(TRANSLATOR, OPTIONS)

See L<XML::Compile::Translate/"Constructors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<register>(NAME)

=item XML::Compile::Translate::Template-E<gt>B<register>(NAME)

See L<XML::Compile::Translate/"Constructors">

=back

=head2 Attributes

=head2 Handlers

=over 4

=item XML::Compile::Translate::Template-E<gt>B<compile>(ELEMENT|ATTRIBUTE|TYPE, OPTIONS)

See L<XML::Compile::Translate/"Handlers">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head2 Translator options

=head3 performance optimization

=head3 qualified XML

=head3 Name-spaces

=head3 Wildcards handlers

=head2 Processing Wildcards

Wildcards are not (yet) supported.

=head2 Schema hooks

=head3 hooks executed before the template is generated

None defined yet.

=head3 hooks executed as replacement

The predefined hook C<COLLAPSE> can be used to remove the extensive
listing of some elements.  Usually used with a type of which you
know the structure or which is repeated often.

=head3 hooks for post-processing, after the data is collected

None defined yet.

Hooks are implemented since version 0.82.  They can be used to
improve the template output.

=head2 Typemaps

=head3 Typemaps for PERL template output

You can pass C<< &function_name >> to indicate that the code reference
with variable name C<< $function_name >> will be called.  Mind the change
of C<< & >> into C<< $ >>.

When C<< $object_name >> is provided, then that object is an interface
object, which will be called for the indicated type.

In case class name (any bareword will do) is specified, it is shown
as a call to the C<toXML()> instance method call from some data object
of the specified class.

Typemaps are currently only available to improve the PERL output.

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile distribution version 1.22,
built on June 20, 2011. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Other distributions in this suite:
L<XML::Compile>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP12>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::WSA>,
L<XML::Compile::C14N>,
L<XML::Compile::WSS>,
L<XML::Compile::Tester>,
L<XML::Compile::Cache>,
L<XML::Compile::Dumper>,
L<XML::Compile::RPC>,
L<XML::Rewrite>,
L<XML::eXistDB>,
and
L<XML::LibXML::Simple>.

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile>
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2006-2011 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

