=head1 NAME

Log::Report::Dispatcher::File - send messages to a file or file-handle

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Log::Report::Dispatcher::File
   is a Log::Report::Dispatcher

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 dispatcher Log::Report::Dispatcher::File => 'stderr'
   , to => \*STDERR, accept => 'NOTICE-';

 # close a dispatcher
 dispatcher close => 'stderr';

 # let dispatcher open and close the file
 dispatcher FILE => 'mylog', to => '/var/log/mylog'
   , charset => 'utf-8';
 ...
 dispatcher close => 'mylog';  # will close file

 # open yourself, then also close yourself
 open OUT, ">:encoding('iso-8859-1')", '/var/log/mylog'
     or fault "...";
 dispatcher FILE => 'mylog', to => \*OUT;
 ...
 dispatcher close => 'mylog';  
 close OUT;

 # dispatch into a scalar
 my $output = '';
 open $outfile, '>', \$output;
 dispatcher FILE => 'into-scalar', to => \$outfile;
 ...
 dispatcher close => 'into-scalar';
 print $output;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This basic file logger accepts an file-handle or filename as destination.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<close>

Only when initiated with a FILENAME, the file will be closed.  In any
other case, nothing will be done.

=item Log::Report::Dispatcher::File-E<gt>B<new>(TYPE, NAME, OPTIONS)

 -Option       --Defined in     --Default
  accept         Log::Report::Dispatcher  depend on mode
  charset        Log::Report::Dispatcher  LOCALE
  format_reason  Log::Report::Dispatcher  'LOWERCASE'
  locale         Log::Report::Dispatcher  <system locale>
  mode           Log::Report::Dispatcher  'NORMAL'
  replace                         false
  to                              <required>

=over 2

=item accept => REASONS

=item charset => CHARSET

=item format_reason => 'UPPERCASE'|'LOWERCASE'|'UCFIRST'|'IGNORE'|CODE

=item locale => LOCALE

=item mode => 'NORMAL'|'VERBOSE'|'ASSERT'|'DEBUG'|0..3

=item replace => BOOLEAN

Only used in combination with a FILENAME: throw away the old file
if it exists.  Probably you wish to append to existing information.

Use the LOCALE setting by default, which is LC_CTYPE or LC_ALL or LANG
(in that order).  If these contain a character-set which Perl understands,
then that is used, otherwise silently ignored.

=item to => FILENAME|FILEHANDLE|OBJECT

You can either specify a FILENAME, which is opened in append mode with
autoflush on. Or pass any kind of FILE-HANDLE or some OBJECT which
implements a C<print()> method. You probably want to have autoflush
enabled on your FILE-HANDLES.

When cleaning-up the dispatcher, the file will only be closed in case
of a FILENAME.

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<filename>

Returns the name of the opened file, or C<undef> in case this dispatcher
was started from a file-handle or file-object.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<isDisabled>

See L<Log::Report::Dispatcher/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<mode>

See L<Log::Report::Dispatcher/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<name>

See L<Log::Report::Dispatcher/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<needs>

See L<Log::Report::Dispatcher/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<type>

See L<Log::Report::Dispatcher/"Accessors">

=back

=head2 Logging

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<collectLocation>

=item Log::Report::Dispatcher::File-E<gt>B<collectLocation>

See L<Log::Report::Dispatcher/"Logging">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<collectStack>([MAXDEPTH])

=item Log::Report::Dispatcher::File-E<gt>B<collectStack>([MAXDEPTH])

See L<Log::Report::Dispatcher/"Logging">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<log>(HASH-of-OPTIONS, REASON, MESSAGE)

See L<Log::Report::Dispatcher/"Logging">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<stackTraceLine>(OPTIONS)

=item Log::Report::Dispatcher::File-E<gt>B<stackTraceLine>(OPTIONS)

See L<Log::Report::Dispatcher/"Logging">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<translate>(HASH-of-OPTIONS, REASON, MESSAGE)

See L<Log::Report::Dispatcher/"Logging">

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Log-Report distribution version 0.94,
built on August 23, 2011. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/log-report/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2011 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

