=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::Cache - Cache compiled XML translators

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::Cache
   is a XML::Compile::Schema
   is a XML::Compile

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $cache = XML::Compile::Cache->new(...);

 $cache->declare('READER',  $type,  @options);
 $cache->declare(RW     => \@types, @options);
 $cache->declare(WRITER =>  $type, \@options);

 $cache->compileAll;
 $cache->compileAll('RW');

 # get the cached code ref for the reader
 my $reader = $cache->reader($type, @opts);
 use Data::Dumper;
 print Dumper $reader->($xml);

 # get the cached code ref for the writer, and use it
 my $doc = XML::LibXML::Document->new('1.0', 'UTF-8');
 my $xml = $cache->writer($type)->($doc, $perl);
 print $xml->toString(1);

 # use the base-class uncached, the XML::Compile::Schema
 my $do = $cache->compile(READER => $type, @opts);

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item XML::Compile::Cache-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

 -Option            --Defined in     --Default
  allow_undeclared                     <false>
  any_element                          'SKIP_ALL'
  block_namespace     XML::Compile::Schema  []
  hook                XML::Compile::Schema  undef
  hooks               XML::Compile::Schema  []
  ignore_unused_tags  XML::Compile::Schema  <false>
  key_rewrite         XML::Compile::Schema  []
  opts_readers                         []
  opts_rw                              []
  opts_writers                         []
  prefixes                             <smart>
  schema_dirs         XML::Compile     undef
  typemap                              {}
  xsi_type                             {}

=over 2

=item allow_undeclared => BOOLEAN

When true, you may call the reader or writer with types which were
not registered with L<declare()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Administration">.  In that case, the reader or
writer may also get options passed for the compiler, as long as
they are consistent over each use of the type.

=item any_element => CODE|'TAKE_ALL'|'SKIP_ALL'|'ATTEMPT'|'SLOPPY'

See L<anyElement()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">.

=item block_namespace => NAMESPACE|TYPE|HASH|CODE|ARRAY

=item hook => ARRAY-WITH-HOOKDATA | HOOK

=item hooks => ARRAY-OF-HOOK

=item ignore_unused_tags => BOOLEAN|REGEXP

=item key_rewrite => HASH|CODE|ARRAY-of-HASH-and-CODE

=item opts_readers => HASH|ARRAY-of-PAIRS

=item opts_rw => HASH|ARRAY-of-PAIRS

Options added to both READERs and WRITERS.  Options which are passed
with L<declare()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Administration"> and C<opts_readers> or C<opts_writers> will overrule
these.  See L<addCompileOptions()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">.

=item opts_writers => HASH|ARRAY-of-PAIRS

=item prefixes => HASH|ARRAY-of-PAIRS

Define prefix name to name-space mappings.  Passed to L<compile(prefixes)|XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers">
for each reader and writer, but also used to permit L<findName()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Administration"> to
accept types which use a prefix.

Specify an ARRAY of (prefix, name-space) pairs, or a HASH which maps
name-spaces to prefixes (HASH order is reversed from ARRAY order!)  When
you wish to collect the results, like usage counts, of the translation
processing, you will need to specify a HASH.

 prefixes => [ mine => $myns, your => $yourns ]
 prefixes => { $myns => 'mine', $yourns => 'your' }

 # the previous is short for:
 prefixes => { $myns => [ uri => $myns, prefix => 'mine', used => 0 ]
             , $yourns => [ uri => $yourns, prefix => 'your', ...] }

=item schema_dirs => DIRECTORY|ARRAY-OF-DIRECTORIES

=item typemap => HASH|ARRAY

=item xsi_type => HASH|ARRAY

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addCompileOptions>(['READERS'|'WRITERS'|'RW'], OPTIONS)

[0.99] You may provide global compile options with L<new(opts_rw)|XML::Compile::Cache/"Constructors">,
C<opts_readers> and C<opts_writers>, but also later using this method.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addHook>(HOOKDATA|HOOK|undef)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addHooks>(HOOK, [HOOK, ...])

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addKeyRewrite>(PREDEF|CODE|HASH, ...)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addSchemaDirs>(DIRECTORIES|FILENAME)

=item XML::Compile::Cache-E<gt>B<addSchemaDirs>(DIRECTORIES|FILENAME)

See L<XML::Compile/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addSchemas>(XML, OPTIONS)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addTypemap>(PAIR)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addTypemaps>(PAIRS)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<allowUndeclared>([BOOLEAN])

Whether it is permitted to create readers and writers which are not
declared cleanly.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<anyElement>('ATTEMPT'|'SLOPPY'|'SKIP_ALL'|'TAKE_ALL'|CODE)

[as method since 0.99] How to process ANY elements, see also
L<new(any_element)|XML::Compile::Cache/"Constructors">.

Reader: C<ATTEMPT> will convert all any elements, applying the reader for
each element found. When an element is not found in a schema, it will
be included as XML::LibXML::Element node.

[0.93] Reader: With C<SLOPPY>, first automatic typed conversion is
attempted. But is the type is not known, XML::LibXML::Simple subroutine XMLin
is called to the resque.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<blockNamespace>(NAMESPACE|TYPE|HASH|CODE|ARRAY)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<hooks>

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<prefix>(PREFIX)

Lookup a prefix definition.  This returns a HASH with namespace info.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<prefixFor>(URI)

Lookup the preferred prefix for the URI.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<prefixed>(TYPE)

Translate the fully qualified TYPE into a prefixed version.  Will produce
undef if the namespace is unknown.

example: 

   print $schema->prefixed($type} || $type;

=item $obj-E<gt>B<prefixes>([PAIRS|ARRAY|HASH])

Returns the HASH with prefix to name-space translations.  You should not
modify the returned HASH.  New PAIRS of prefix to namespace relations
can be passed.

[0.14]
If a name-space appears for the second time, then the new prefix will be
recognized by L<findName()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Administration">, but not used in the output.  When the prefix
already exists for a different namespace, then an error will be casted.

[0.90]
You may also provide an ARRAY of pairs or a HASH.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<typemap>([HASH|ARRAY|PAIRS])

[0.98] Add global knowledge on typemaps.  Returns the typemap.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<useSchema>(SCHEMA, [SCHEMA])

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<xsiType>([HASH|ARRAY|LIST])

[0.98] add global xsi_type declarations.  Returns the xsiType set.

=back

=head2 Compilers

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compile>(('READER'|'WRITER'), TYPE, OPTIONS)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compileAll>(['READERS'|'WRITERS'|'RW', [NAMESPACE]])

Compile all the declared readers and writers with the default 'RW').  You may
also select to pre-compile only the READERS or only the WRITERS.  The
selection can be limited further by specifying a NAMESPACE.

By default, the processors are only compiled when used.  This method is
especially useful in a daemon process, where preparations can take as
much time as they want to... and running should be as fast as possible.

=item XML::Compile::Cache-E<gt>B<dataToXML>(NODE|REF-XML-STRING|XML-STRING|FILENAME|FILEHANDLE|KNOWN)

See L<XML::Compile/"Compilers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<reader>(TYPE|NAME, OPTIONS)

Returns the reader CODE for the TYPE or NAME (see L<findName()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Administration">).
OPTIONS are only permitted if L<new(allow_undeclared)|XML::Compile::Cache/"Constructors"> is true, and the
same as the previous call to this method.

The reader will be compiled the first time that it is used, and that
same CODE reference will be returned each next request for the same
TYPE.  Call L<compileAll()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Compilers"> to have all readers compiled by force.

example: 

  my $schema = XML::Compile::Cache->new(\@xsd,
     prefixes => [ gml => $GML_NAMESPACE ] );
  my $data   = $schema->reader('gml:members')->($xml);

  my $getmem = $schema->reader('gml:members');
  my $data   = $getmem->($xml);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<template>('XML'|'PERL', ELEMENT, OPTIONS)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<writer>(TYPE|NAME)

Returns the writer CODE for the TYPE or NAME (see L<findName()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Administration">).
OPTIONS are only permitted if L<new(allow_undeclared)|XML::Compile::Cache/"Constructors"> is true, and the
same as the previous call to this method.

The writer will be compiled the first time that it is used, and that
same CODE reference will be returned each next request for the same
type.

example: 

  my $xml = $cache->writer('gml:members')->($doc, $data);

  my $doc = XML::LibXML::Document->new('1.0', 'UTF-8');
  my $wr  = $cache->writer('gml:members');
  my $xml = $wr->($doc, $data);
  $doc->setDocumentElement($xml);
  print $doc->toString(1);

=back

=head2 Administration

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<declare>('READER'|'WRITER'|'RW', TYPE|ARRAY-of-TYPES, OPTIONS)

Register that the indicated TYPE (or TYPES) may be used, and needs to
be translated with the OPTIONS (either specified as ARRAY or LIST).
Specify whether it may get used as READER, WRITER, or both (RW).  If the
READER and WRITER need different options, then you need to declare them
seperately; in that case you cannot use RW.

The TYPE should be understood by L<findName()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Administration">, so may be prefixed.

example: 

  $cache->declare(READER => 'pref:count', sloppy_integers => 1)
        ->declare(RW     => '{myns}mylocal');

  $cache->declare(WRITER => [ 'xsd:int', '{http://}aap' ]);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<doesExtend>(EXTTYPE, BASETYPE)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<elements>

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<findName>(NAME)

Translate the NAME specification into a schema defined full type.
The NAME can be a full type (like '{namespace}localname', usually
created with L<XML::Compile::Util::pack_type()|XML::Compile::Util/"Packing">) or a prefixed type
(like 'myns:localname', where C<myns> is defined via L<new(prefixes)|XML::Compile::Cache/"Constructors">
or L<prefixes()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">).

When the form is 'myns:' (so without local name), the namespace uri is
returned.

example: of findName()

  $schema->prefixes(pre => 'http://namespace');

  my $type = $schema->findName('pre:name');
  print $type;   # {http://namespace}name

  my $ns   = $schema->findName('pre:');
  print $ns;     # http://namespace

  my $type = $schema->findName('{somens}name');
  print $type;   # {somens}name    [a no-op]

=item $obj-E<gt>B<findSchemaFile>(FILENAME)

=item XML::Compile::Cache-E<gt>B<findSchemaFile>(FILENAME)

See L<XML::Compile/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<importDefinitions>(XMLDATA, OPTIONS)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<knownNamespace>(NAMESPACE|PAIRS)

=item XML::Compile::Cache-E<gt>B<knownNamespace>(NAMESPACE|PAIRS)

See L<XML::Compile/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<namespaces>

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<printIndex>([FILEHANDLE], OPTIONS)

 -Option       --Default
  show_declared  <true>

=over 2

=item show_declared => BOOLEAN

Add an indicator to each line, about whether readers and writers are
declare for the type.  Declared readers and writers will show flags
C<r> and C<w> respectively.  Compiled readers and writers carry a
C<R> and/or C<W>.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<types>

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<walkTree>(NODE, CODE)

See L<XML::Compile/"Administration">

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTIONS

C<XML::Compile::Cache> is the smart brother of L<XML::Compile::Schema|XML::Compile::Schema>;
it keeps track of your compiled readers and writers, and also helps
you administer the parameters to handle compilation.  Besides, it
lat you use easy prefixes instead of full namespaces.

With L<XML::Compile::Schema::compile()|XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers"> (defined in the SUPER class of
this module) you can construct translators from XML to Perl and back.
These translators are code references, which are "expensive" to create,
but "cheap" in use; call them as often as you want.  This module helps
you administer them.

When the schemas grow larger, it gets harder to see which code reference
have already be created and which not. And, these code references need
compile options which you do not want to distribute over your whole
program.  Finally, in a daemon application, you do not want to create
the translators when used (which can be in every client again), but once
during the initiation of the daemon.

One of the most important contributions to the compile management, is
the addition of smart prefix handling. This means that you can use
prefixed names in stead of full types, often created with
L<XML::Compile::Util::pack_type()|XML::Compile::Util/"Packing">.

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-Cache distribution version 0.991,
built on May 06, 2011. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Other distributions in this suite:
L<XML::Compile>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP12>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::WSA>,
L<XML::Compile::C14N>,
L<XML::Compile::WSS>,
L<XML::Compile::Tester>,
L<XML::Compile::Cache>,
L<XML::Compile::Dumper>,
L<XML::Compile::RPC>,
L<XML::Rewrite>,
L<XML::eXistDB>,
and
L<XML::LibXML::Simple>.

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile>
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2008-2011 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

