=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::SOAP10 - SOAP11 HTTP-GET/POST

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::SOAP10
   is a XML::Compile::SOAP

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # See XML::Compile::SOAP for global usage examples.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

WSDL 1.1 defines HTTP-GET and HTTP-POST bindings, which are nowhere
described (as far as I know). So, it is unclear where they came from.
Probably from the time before SOAP 1.1.  For simplicity, I name this
SOAP 1.0.  There is B<no SOAP 1.0> standard.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

 -Option    --Defined in     --Default
  media_type  XML::Compile::SOAP  application/soap+xml
  schemas     XML::Compile::SOAP  created internally

=over 2

=item media_type => MIMETYPE

=item schemas => C<XML::Compile::Cache> object

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<name>

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<schemas>

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<version>

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Accessors">

=back

=head2 Single message

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compileMessage>(('SENDER'|'RECEIVER'), OPTIONS)

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Single message">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<messageStructure>(XML)

=item XML::Compile::SOAP10-E<gt>B<messageStructure>(XML)

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Single message">

=back

=head2 Helpers

=head2 Transcoding

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<replyMustUnderstandFault>(TYPE)

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Transcoding">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<roleAbbreviation>(URI)

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Transcoding">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<roleURI>(URI|STRING)

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Transcoding">

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-SOAP distribution version 2.24,
built on June 20, 2011. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Other distributions in this suite:
L<XML::Compile>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP12>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::WSA>,
L<XML::Compile::C14N>,
L<XML::Compile::WSS>,
L<XML::Compile::Tester>,
L<XML::Compile::Cache>,
L<XML::Compile::Dumper>,
L<XML::Compile::RPC>,
L<XML::Rewrite>,
L<XML::eXistDB>,
and
L<XML::LibXML::Simple>.

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile>
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2011 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

