=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::WSDL11 - create SOAP messages defined by WSDL 1.1

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::WSDL11
   is a XML::Compile::Cache
   is a XML::Compile::Schema
   is a XML::Compile

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # preparation
 use XML::Compile::WSDL11;      # use WSDL version 1.1
 use XML::Compile::SOAP11;      # use SOAP version 1.1
 use XML::Compile::Transport::SOAPHTTP;

 my $wsdl = XML::Compile::WSDL11->new($wsdlfile);
 $wsdl->addWSDL(...more WSDL files...);
 $wsdl->importDefinitions(...more schemas...);

 # during initiation, for each used call (slow)
 my $call = $wsdl->compileClient('GetStockPrice', ...);

 # at "run-time", call as often as you want (fast)
 my $answer = $call->(%request);

 # capture useful trace information
 my ($answer, $trace) = $call->(%request);

 # no need to administer the operations by hand: alternative
 $wsdl->compileCalls;  # at initiation
 my $answer = $wsdl->call(GetStockPrice => %request);

 # investigate the %request structure (server input)
 print $wsdl->explain('GetStockPrice', PERL => 'INPUT', recurse => 1);

 # investigate the $answer structure (server output)
 print $wsdl->explain('GetStockPrice', PERL => 'OUTPUT');

 # when you like, get all operation definitions
 my @all_ops = $wsdl->operations;

 # Install XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon
 my $server  = XML::Compile::SOAP::HTTPDaemon->new;
 $server->operationsFromWSDL($wsdl);
 undef $wsdl;    # not needed any further
 
 # For debug info, start your script with:
 use Log::Report mode => 'DEBUG';

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module implements WSDL version 1.1.
An WSDL file defines a set of messages to be send and received over
(SOAP) connections.

As end-user, you do not have to worry about the complex details of the
messages and the way to exchange them: it's all simple Perl for you.
Also, faults are handled automatically.  The only complication you have
to worry about is to shape a nested HASH structure to the sending
message structure.  L<XML::Compile::Schema::template()|XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers"> may help you.

When the definitions are spread over multiple files you will need to
use L<addWSDL()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Extension"> (wsdl) or L<importDefinitions()|XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration"> (additional schema's)
explicitly. Usually, interreferences between those files are broken.
Often they reference over networks (you should never trust). So, on
purpose you B<must explicitly load> the files you need from local disk!
(of course, it is simple to find one-liners as work-arounds, but I will
to tell you how!)

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item XML::Compile::WSDL11-E<gt>B<new>(XML, OPTIONS)

The XML is the WSDL file, which is anything accepted by
L<XML::Compile::dataToXML()|XML::Compile/"Compilers">.

 -Option            --Defined in     --Default
  allow_undeclared    XML::Compile::Cache  <false>
  any_element         XML::Compile::Cache  'SKIP_ALL'
  block_namespace     XML::Compile::Schema  []
  hook                XML::Compile::Schema  undef
  hooks               XML::Compile::Schema  []
  ignore_unused_tags  XML::Compile::Schema  <false>
  key_rewrite         XML::Compile::Schema  []
  opts_readers        XML::Compile::Cache  []
  opts_rw             XML::Compile::Cache  []
  opts_writers        XML::Compile::Cache  []
  parser_options      XML::Compile     <many>
  prefixes            XML::Compile::Cache  <smart>
  schema_dirs         XML::Compile     undef
  typemap             XML::Compile::Cache  {}
  xsi_type            XML::Compile::Cache  {}

=over 2

=item allow_undeclared => BOOLEAN

=item any_element => CODE|'TAKE_ALL'|'SKIP_ALL'|'ATTEMPT'|'SLOPPY'

=item block_namespace => NAMESPACE|TYPE|HASH|CODE|ARRAY

=item hook => ARRAY-WITH-HOOKDATA | HOOK

=item hooks => ARRAY-OF-HOOK

=item ignore_unused_tags => BOOLEAN|REGEXP

=item key_rewrite => HASH|CODE|ARRAY-of-HASH-and-CODE

=item opts_readers => HASH|ARRAY-of-PAIRS

=item opts_rw => HASH|ARRAY-of-PAIRS

=item opts_writers => HASH|ARRAY-of-PAIRS

=item parser_options => HASH|ARRAY

=item prefixes => HASH|ARRAY-of-PAIRS

=item schema_dirs => DIRECTORY|ARRAY-OF-DIRECTORIES

=item typemap => HASH|ARRAY

=item xsi_type => HASH|ARRAY

=back

=back

=head2 Accessors

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addCompileOptions>(['READERS'|'WRITERS'|'RW'], OPTIONS)

See L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addHook>(HOOKDATA|HOOK|undef)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addHooks>(HOOK, [HOOK, ...])

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addKeyRewrite>(PREDEF|CODE|HASH, ...)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addSchemaDirs>(DIRECTORIES|FILENAME)

=item XML::Compile::WSDL11-E<gt>B<addSchemaDirs>(DIRECTORIES|FILENAME)

See L<XML::Compile/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addSchemas>(XML, OPTIONS)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addTypemap>(PAIR)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addTypemaps>(PAIRS)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<allowUndeclared>([BOOLEAN])

See L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<anyElement>('ATTEMPT'|'SLOPPY'|'SKIP_ALL'|'TAKE_ALL'|CODE)

See L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<blockNamespace>(NAMESPACE|TYPE|HASH|CODE|ARRAY)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<hooks>

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<prefix>(PREFIX)

See L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<prefixFor>(URI)

See L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<prefixed>(TYPE)

See L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<prefixes>([PAIRS|ARRAY|HASH])

See L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<typemap>([HASH|ARRAY|PAIRS])

See L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<useSchema>(SCHEMA, [SCHEMA])

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<xsiType>([HASH|ARRAY|LIST])

See L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Accessors">

=back

=head2 Compilers

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<call>(OPERATION, DATA)

[2.20] Call the OPERATION (by name) with DATA (HASH or LIST of parameters).
This only works when you have called L<compileCalls()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Compilers"> beforehand,
always during the initiation phase of the program.

example: 

   # at initiation time (compile once)
   $wsdl->compileCalls;

   # at runtime (run often)
   my $answer = $wsdl->call($operation, $request);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compile>(('READER'|'WRITER'), TYPE, OPTIONS)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compileAll>(['READERS'|'WRITERS'|'RW'|'CALLS', [NAMESPACE]])

[2.20] With explicit C<CALLS> or without any parameter, it will call
L<compileCalls()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Compilers">. Otherwise, see L<XML::Compile::Cache::compileAll()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Compilers">.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compileCalls>(OPTIONS)

[2.20] Compile a handler for each of the available operations. The OPTIONS are
passed to each call of L<compileClient()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Extension">, but will be overruled by more
specific declared options.

Additionally, OPTIONS can contain C<service>, C<port>, and C<binding>
to limit the set of involved calls. See L<operations()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Introspection"> for details on
these options.

You may declare additional specific compilation options with the
L<declare()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Administration"> method.

example: 

   my $trans = XML::Compile::Transport::SOAPHTTP
     ->new(timeout => 500, address => $wsdl->endPoint);
   $wsdl->compileCalls(transport => $trans);

   # alternatives for simple cases
   $wsdl->compileAll('CALLS');
   $wsdl->compileAll;
   
   my $answer = $wsdl->call($myop, $request);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<dataToXML>(NODE|REF-XML-STRING|XML-STRING|FILENAME|FILEHANDLE|KNOWN)

=item XML::Compile::WSDL11-E<gt>B<dataToXML>(NODE|REF-XML-STRING|XML-STRING|FILENAME|FILEHANDLE|KNOWN)

See L<XML::Compile/"Compilers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<initParser>(OPTIONS)

=item XML::Compile::WSDL11-E<gt>B<initParser>(OPTIONS)

See L<XML::Compile/"Compilers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<reader>(TYPE|NAME, OPTIONS)

See L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Compilers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<template>('XML'|'PERL', ELEMENT, OPTIONS)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<writer>(TYPE|NAME)

See L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Compilers">

=back

=head2 Extension

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addWSDL>(XMLDATA)

The XMLDATA must be acceptable to L<XML::Compile::dataToXML()|XML::Compile/"Compilers"> and 
should represent the top-level of a (partial) WSDL document.
The specification can be spread over multiple files, each of
which must have a C<definition> root element.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<compileClient>([NAME], OPTIONS)

Creates an L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation|XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation> temporary object using
L<operation()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Extension">, and then calls C<compileClient()> on that.

The OPTIONS available include all of the options for:

=over 4

=item .

L<operation()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Extension"> (i.e. C<service> and C<port>), and all of

=item .

L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation::compileClient()|XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation/"Handlers"> (there are many of
these, for instance C<transport_hook> and C<server>)

=back

You B<cannot> pass options for L<XML::Compile::Schema::compile()|XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers">, like
C<<sloppy_integers => 0>>, hooks or typemaps this way. Use L<new(opts_rw)|XML::Compile::Cache/"Constructors">
and friends to declare those.

example: 

  $wsdl->compileClient
    ( operation => 'HelloWorld'
    , port      => 'PrefillSoap' # only needed when multiple ports
    );

=item $obj-E<gt>B<namesFor>(CLASS)

Returns the list of names available for a certain definition CLASS in
the WSDL. See L<index()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Introspection"> for a way to determine the available CLASS
information.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<operation>([NAME], OPTIONS)

Collect all information for a certain operation.  Returned is an
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation|XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation> object.

An operation is defined by a service name, a port, some bindings,
and an operation name, which can be specified explicitly and is often
left-out: in the many configurations where there are no alternative
choices. In case there are alternatives, you will be requested to
pick an option.

 -Option   --Default
  action     <undef>
  operation  <required>
  port       <only when just one port in WSDL>
  service    <only when just one service in WSDL>

=over 2

=item action => STRING

Overrule the soapAction from the WSDL.

=item operation => NAME

Ignored when the parameter list starts with a NAME (which is an
alternative for this option).  Optional when there is only
one operation defined within the portType.

=item port => NAME

Required when more than one port is defined.

=item service => QNAME|PREFIXED

Required when more than one service is defined.

=back

=back

=head2 Administration

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<declare>(GROUP, COMPONENT|ARRAY, OPTIONS)

Register specific compile OPTIONS for the specific COMPONENT. See also
L<XML::Compile::Cache::declare()|XML::Compile::Cache/"Administration">. The GROUP is either C<READER>,
C<WRITER>, C<RW> (both reader and writer), or C<OPERATION>.  As COMPONENT,
you specify the element name (for readers and writers) or operation name
(for operations). OPTIONS are specified as LIST, ARRAY or HASH.

example: 

   $wsdl->declare(OPERATION => 'GetStockPrice', @extra_opts);
   $wsdl->compileCalls;
   my $answer = $wsdl->call(GetStockPrice => %request);

=item $obj-E<gt>B<doesExtend>(EXTTYPE, BASETYPE)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<elements>

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<findName>(NAME)

See L<XML::Compile::Cache/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<findSchemaFile>(FILENAME)

=item XML::Compile::WSDL11-E<gt>B<findSchemaFile>(FILENAME)

See L<XML::Compile/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<importDefinitions>(XMLDATA, OPTIONS)

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<knownNamespace>(NAMESPACE|PAIRS)

=item XML::Compile::WSDL11-E<gt>B<knownNamespace>(NAMESPACE|PAIRS)

See L<XML::Compile/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<namespaces>

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<types>

See L<XML::Compile::Schema/"Administration">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<walkTree>(NODE, CODE)

See L<XML::Compile/"Administration">

=back

=head2 Introspection

All of the following methods are usually NOT meant for end-users. End-users
should stick to the L<operation()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Extension"> and L<compileClient()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Extension"> methods.

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<endPoint>(OPTIONS)

[2.20] Returns the address of the server, as specified by the WSDL. When
there are no alternatives for service or port, you not not need to
specify those paramters.

 -Option --Default
  port     <undef>
  service  <undef>

=over 2

=item port => NAME

=item service => QNAME|PREFIXED

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<explain>(OPERATION, FORMAT, DIRECTION, OPTIONS)

[2.13]
Produce templates (see L<XML::Compile::Schema::template()|XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers"> which detail
the use of the OPERATION. Currently, only the C<PERL> template FORMAT
is available.

The DIRECTION of operation is either C<INPUT> (input for the server,
hence to be produced by the client), or C<OUTPUT> (from the server,
received by the client).

The actual work is done by L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation::explain()|XML::Compile::SOAP::Operation/"Helpers">. The
OPTIONS passed to that method include C<recurse> and C<skip_header>.

example: 

  print $wsdl->explain('CheckStatus', PERL => 'INPUT');

  print $wsdl->explain('CheckStatus', PERL => 'OUTPUT'
     , recurse => 1                 # explain options
     , port    => 'Soap12PortName'  # operation options
     );

=item $obj-E<gt>B<findDef>(CLASS, [QNAME|PREFIXED|NAME])

With a QNAME, the HASH which contains the parsed XML information
from the WSDL template for that CLASS-NAME combination is returned.
You may also have a PREFIXED name, using one of the predefined namespace
abbreviations.  Otherwise, NAME is considered to be the localName in
that class.  When the NAME is not found, an error is produced.

Without QNAME in SCALAR context, there may only be one such name
defined otherwise an error is produced.  In LIST context, all definitions
in CLASS are returned.

example: 

 $service  = $obj->findDef(service => 'http://xyz');
 @services = $obj->findDef('service');

=item $obj-E<gt>B<index>([CLASS, [QNAME]])

With a CLASS and QNAME, it returns one WSDL definition HASH or undef.
Returns the index for the CLASS group of names as HASH.  When no CLASS is
specified, a HASH of HASHes is returned with the CLASSes on the top-level.

CLASS includes C<service>, C<binding>, C<portType>, and C<message>.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<operations>(OPTIONS)

Return a list with all operations defined in the WSDL.

 -Option --Default
  binding  <undef>
  port     <undef>
  service  <undef>

=over 2

=item binding => NAME

Only return operations which use the binding with the specified NAME.
By default, all bindings are accepted.

=item port => NAME

Return only operations related to the specified port NAME.
By default operations from all ports.

=item service => NAME

Only return operations related to the NAMEd service, by default all services.

=back

=item $obj-E<gt>B<printIndex>([FILEHANDLE], OPTIONS)

For available OPTIONS, see L<operations()|XML::Compile::WSDL11/"Introspection">.  This method is useful to
understand the structure of your WSDL: it shows a nested list of
services, bindings, ports and portTypes.

 -Option       --Defined in         --Default
  show_declared  XML::Compile::Cache  <true>

=over 2

=item show_declared => BOOLEAN

=back

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head2 Comparison

=head2 Collecting definitions

=head3 Organizing your definitions

=head2 Addressing components

=head2 Representing data-structures

=head3 simpleType

=head3 complexType/simpleContent

=head3 complexType and complexType/complexContent

=head3 Manually produced XML NODE

=head3 Occurence

=head3 Default Values

=head3 Repetative blocks

=head4 repetative sequence, choice, all

=head4 repetative groups

=head4 repetative substitutionGroups

=head3 List type

=head3 Using substitutionGroup constructs

=head3 Wildcards any and anyAttribute

=head3 ComplexType with "mixed" attribute

=head3 hexBinary and base64Binary

=head2 Schema hooks

=head3 defining hooks

=head3 general syntax

=head3 hooks on matching types

=head3 hooks on matching ids

=head3 hooks on matching paths

=head2 Typemaps

=head3 Private variables in objects

=head3 Typemap limitations

=head2 Handling xsi:type

=head2 Key rewrite

=head3 key_rewrite via table

=head3 rewrite via function

=head3 key_rewrite when localNames collide

=head3 rewrite for convenience

=head3 pre-defined key_rewrite rules

=head2 Initializing SOAP operations via WSDL

When you have a WSDL file, then SOAP is simple.  If there is no such file
at hand, then it is still possible to use SOAP.  See the DETAILS chapter
in L<XML::Compile::SOAP|XML::Compile::SOAP>.

The WSDL file contains operations which can be addressed by name.
In the WSDL file you need to find the name of the port to be used.
In most cases, the WSDL has only one service, one port, one binding,
and one portType and those names can therefore be omitted.  If there is
a choice, then you must explicitly select one.

 use XML::Compile::WSDL11 ();

 # once in your program
 my $wsdl   = XML::Compile::WSDL11->new('def.wsdl');

 # XML::Compile::Schema refuses to follow "include" and
 # "import" commands, so you need to invoke them explicitly.
 # $wsdl->addWSDL('file2.wsdl');            # optional
 # $wsdl->importDefinitions('schema1.xsd'); # optional

 # once for each of the defined operations
 my $call   = $wsdl->compileClient('GetStockPrice');

 # see XML::Compile::SOAP chapter DETAILS about call params
 my $answer = $call->(%request);

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-SOAP distribution version 2.24,
built on June 20, 2011. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

Other distributions in this suite:
L<XML::Compile>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP12>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::WSA>,
L<XML::Compile::C14N>,
L<XML::Compile::WSS>,
L<XML::Compile::Tester>,
L<XML::Compile::Cache>,
L<XML::Compile::Dumper>,
L<XML::Compile::RPC>,
L<XML::Rewrite>,
L<XML::eXistDB>,
and
L<XML::LibXML::Simple>.

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile>
For live contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007-2011 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

